Custom SQL Models (#426)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: warehouse-actions/setting-connections-using-models.mdx

---
# slug: "/docs/warehouse-actions/setting-connections-using-models"
title: "Setting Connections using Models"

> description: Detailed technical description on how to use the SQL models to set up connections and send the data to the specified destinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Detailed technical description on using the SQL models to set up connections.
```

---

> # Models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Setting Connections using Models
```

> The **Models** feature provides the capability to define custom SQL queries over the warehouse and execute them to send the resultant data to the specified destinations. You can also define the **sync schedule** to sync the data to the destinations as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RudderStack's **Models** feature lets you run custom SQL queries on your warehouse data and send the results to your specified destinations. You can also define a schedule to sync the data to the destinations as required.
```

Some salient features of models are:
* Manage the view of all models synced to different destinations at one place.
* Reuse existing models in multiple connections.
* Build models with complex SQL queries using an intuitive UI (RudderStack dashboard).

> 

Reviewer: I feel like these features are more suited in the Models doc above, thoughts?

<div class="infoBlock">

> Currently, the <strong>Models</strong> feature is supported for <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/amazon-redshift/">Amazon Redshift</a>, <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/google-bigquery/">Google BigQuery</a>, <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/postgresql/">PostgreSQL</a>, and <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/snowflake/">Snowflake</a> Warehouse Actions sources only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the <strong>Models</strong> feature is supported for the following Warehouse Actions sources:
<ul>
<li><a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/amazon-redshift/">Amazon Redshift</a></li> 
<li><a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/google-bigquery/">Google BigQuery</a></li>
<li><a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/postgresql/">PostgreSQL</a> </li>
<li><a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/snowflake/">Snowflake</a></li>
</ul>
```

Reviewer: Same suggestion as in the previous doc.

</div>

## Setting connections using models

<div class="infoBlock">

> You can create a model in the RudderStack dashboard and use it while creating a connection between a Warehouse Actions source and destination. For detailed steps on how to create a model, refer to <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/models/">Models</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a model in the RudderStack dashboard and use it while creating a connection between a Warehouse Actions source and destination. For detailed steps on how to create a custom SQL model, refer to the <a href="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/connections/models/">Models</a> guide.
```

</div>

Once a model is created, you can use it to send the data from a warehouse source to a specified destination. Follow the steps listed below to achieve the same:

> 1. Log in to the **RudderStack dashboard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the [**RudderStack dashboard**](https://app.rudderstack.com/).
```

2. Select **Sources** from the left navigation bar and click on **New source**.
3. Select **Warehouse Actions** and choose any supported warehouse from the ones highlighted below: 
<img src="../assets/warehouse-actions-sources/warehouse-action-sources.png" />

4. Name the source and select the **Model** option.
<img src="../assets/warehouse-actions-sources/select-model-option.png" />

<div class="infoBlock">
  

> Be sure whether to configure the source with the <strong>Model</strong> or <strong>Table</strong> option. Once configured, it cannot be switched to the other one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure whether you want to configure the source with the <strong>Model</strong> or <strong>Table</strong> option. Once configured, this setting cannot be changed.
```

</div>

> 5. Next, set the **schedule type** and **run settings** to schedule the data import from your warehouse to RudderStack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Next, set the [**Schedule Settings**](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/common-settings/sync-schedule-settings/) to schedule the data import from your warehouse to RudderStack.
```

6. Once the source is set up, you can connect it to an existing or a new destination by using the **Add Destination** button.  
<img src="../assets/warehouse-actions-sources/add-destination.png" />

7. Select the required destination and configure its connection settings.

8. Next, select the required model from the dropdown list.

<div class="infoBlock">
  
The dropdown will only display the list of models corresponding to the Warehouse Actions source you have configured. For example, only the BigQuery models will be listed in the dropdown for a BigQuery warehouse source.
</div>

> 9. Select the **Sync mode** and at least one user identifier (**user_id/anonymous_id**) from the dropdown list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Select the [**Sync mode**](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/warehouse-actions/common-settings/sync-modes/) and at least one user identifier (**user_id/anonymous_id**) from the dropdown list.
```
